sixty years which is a quarter of a
history of American judicial system what
in the quarter biscuit but at that point
I've been a lawyer of about a decade and
I saw Oswald in paraded and I heard him
say I'm a patsy if it comes out we'll
show I did nothing at all I'm being
framed etc and I thought that this guy
walked into my office and said that to
me because a lot of my clients days we
can say they're innocent when they're
not but I had to take it at face value
ask him well where were you who your
alibi witnesses give me facts about
where you work let's even develop this
case as the defendant because before
Oswald could talk to anyone he was
murdered in the basement of the Dallas
and police courts building they're
murdered while being surrounded by FBI
agents Dallas police officers Secret
Service they murdered him before he
could tell us a word about what his
defense would be I thought that he was
entitled to a defense even after his
death I thought that the American people
were entitled to the truth and so I
began my inquiry because I couldn't talk
to him the most important part of the
evidence that is Lee Harvey Oswald
asking where it was and to check out the
alibis I would start with the dead
client in essence which makes it
exponentially more difficult but not
impossible especially since in this case
there was no let me repeat that so it's
clear there was no evidence leaking
linking Lee Harvey Oswald to the
assassination of President Kennedy
no evidence and no evidence in all these
years as ever coming forward the what
they said is that leha
Osmel was in Mexico City where he met
with the Cubans at their Embassy and the
Soviet Union at their Embassy and so
this was it was not true the man who ran
the CIA for the United States of America
was David F Lee Phillips and he ran it
from his office in Mexico City Mexico
City is better than America for him
because no inquiring reporters or
photographers no local laws that he
could not violate without paying a few
bucks and so the head of the CIA for
America and the rest of Western
Hemisphere was David Phillips and he was
in Mexico City not long ago I was at a
forum this is now half century later
almost closed up form with definitely
Phillips and someone asked him a
question and the apologist for the
Warren Commission said yes mark and
David at Lee Phillips said we never had
any evidence that Oswald was in Mexico
City the whole case was based on there
we never had that in evidence and so
apologists for the Warren Commission
said yeah after Mark Twain
cross-examined him in his skillful way
helps made that statement fact is I was
on the panel
I heard him make the segment I didn't
cross-examine I didn't ask him any
questions and what happened his answer
was in response to a student whose name
I didn't know then and don't even know
now he ii said only not even in
accusatory way mr. Phillips tell us
about Mexico City that's all he said and
Phillips said when the truth comes out
when it finally comes out there was no
evidence that Oswald was ever in Mexico
City and this was the guard around the
CIA for the hemisphere from Mexico City
the whole place was built upon the fact
that Oswald was in Mexico City why do
they want to say Aza was there
he wasn't well first of all they said he
was there in September of 1963 was what
was first CAA when he was at that point
we were told later planning the
assassination I went to Mexico City to
the Cuban embassy see if he get a flight
to Cuba then to the Soviet Union embassy
so I could go from Cuba to Moscow to be
free the fact this need was never in
Mexico City and David Phillips admits
that now but what was the point of
saying that it was to terrify anyone who
looked into the Kennedy assassination
because the first thing or a warrant
said when he was asked when will the
truth ever come out this is the chairman
of the Warren Commission appointed by
President Johnson was really a Johnson
career but they called long Commission
was a Chief Justice to look he was
appointed look into the facts and and
here we have one raised in this issue
about Oswald and saying if the truth
ever comes out hundreds of thousands of
Americans might die oh stop personal
newspapers the time what does he mean
they would start World War three because
it would show that Oswald
was in Mexico City meeting with the
Russians meeting with the Cubans and
September came back and killed the
president two months later the except
that Oswald was not there but someone
was the CIA in September of 1963 and
this is most crucial information in the
entire case in September 1963 the CIA
was setting up Oswald as the assassin
the lone assassin in a crime which had
not taken place and would not take place
for two months how did the CIA know
Kennedy would be killed two months later
because they planned it and they did
how did you embark upon the path of
going to Dallas because you started if
I'm not mistaken you started researching
the case and and starting the process of
writing write what would become rush to
judgment in before the end of the year
in 1963 so well I started 1964 but I'm a
film can I'm 66 I did I wrote it was the
book and the film the film rush to
judgment and the book which were doing
simultaneously because what I did is I
found the witnesses the eyewitnesses to
each of the relevant events the
surviving witnesses facially relative
ends and fill them and the transcripts
of what they said will play a large part
in the book or state judgment and
actually comprise a whole film the rush
to judgment and then I was blessed in
doing this with a really wonderful
documented filmmaker Emile de Antonia
and who I didn't know I know better work
and he called me one day and said I'd
like to talk to you about a film it's a
film about what and he said about the
Kennedy assassination and so we met and
spent a great deal of time talking about
this mostly in a bar actually where
divers coffee and I think we broke the
record for the amount of the Irish
coffee we got the first day we met but
he was actually t we call them was
actually great and he NE played a major
part in the film and their questions to
the film interviews which are I
conducted interviews with they set them
up and deduct the lights and stuff like
that and there and I found the witnesses
in interview them and those transcripts
basically played a large part in the
name of the whole film Richard German
but they also played a large part in the
book rush to judgment which I've never
been a book
for and I did a manuscript turned down
by every publisher in America I think
there's 16 of them I'm not even sure
it's more and and they will reject it
and then three weeks later floor related
to explain the each one said sorry we
can't do it
well after we wrote the actions many
many years later under the Freedom of
Information Act which it even exists at
that point but existed shortly
thereafter there was the only thing came
out of the Kennedy assassination which
was good was a Freedom of Information
Act saying we're entitled to documents
and we got these documents and based
upon those documents we learned a great
deal about what had happened that day in
Dallas and the Antonio called the salami
on a television show called and said I
think you told phone and so this the
interviews I did and which I said up the
booty film became became a BS sorry
there was a little glitch here even lay
up which is even today even with our
medical care program so expect at least
at him like a pyramid and so well we had
a deantonio film leanness at the game
the film rush to judgment because he
called me said I'd like to work with you
and I said great we met I said we had a
few drinks a livin
I refer the lesser manhattan doesn't
exist anymore my memory so America and I
wrote the book dated the film the book
the first book I ever wrote which had
been and last reform that turned out I
would publish in America so I probably
went to England in town
the Bodley head in London hundred years
old very conservative firm and instead
of checking with the CIA or the FBI
about whether we should publish this
book they sent it to Professor
trevor-roper who was the oxford
professor reaches profession means he
was appointed by the crown you know at
Oxford University and he read it for the
publisher gone to help run Martin
Winston and so go to the CIO that the I
decided to someone who was be interested
and in southern English and the body had
asked and what they but he thought of it
he was also given a book by Gerald Ford
called portray W SAS and Ford was just a
member of the Warren Commission and
professor trevor-roper went back and
when he was asked it said well no the
Gerald Ford's book is sort of the
children's version of the Warren
Commission penny sex being later but I
didn't add but I should have I thought
at the time I thought it'd been to
stretch and say if you decide to publish
it you should send a box of crayons
along with it we didn't say that could
that be said Northlands book will be a
classic
the date is published and I will be
honored if I could write the
introduction which is a bit of a problem
for me because he was they were wide
Authority and these matters they've
written the leading book on the last
days of Hitler and the other person who
said he would do the introduction wasn't
Lord Bertrand Russell and my public I
said can they golf till wonder forward
when to enact it and my publisher said
no Birkin Brussels not has been left go
yeah he he was not he was a humanitarian
I guess you can go over there but and so
they said we will publish it with you
German Rovers introduction and I still
have the Bertrand Russell introduction
which I prefer Turner wrote was great
and I'm not criticizing him but
there's got maybe an app to abide Bert
arrested wouldn't read it but they're
writing patrol of publishing and she
that's what the British did and then
when every publisher market turned down
arthur cone of hope rinehart and winston
and talked with the british and said
we'd like to publish that in america so
rush to judgment the first book ever
wrote could not be published in America
by an American publisher until the
British publish of the Bodley head a
conservative old true firm decided to
publish it and it was then published in
the United States by Bernhard Winston
but first accepted in another country
having been rejected by every publisher
in the United States so that's the
problem which is sort of ongoing that's
why I raise it now it's ongoing we don't
get a little fax so it's you know it's
better now that it was half a century
ago we have the internet let's change
the world and has changed our ability to
get information to offer us some
suggestions which are not talk dealing
with the power structure still promised
to me well let me bring Bob in Bob how
did you get involved in in Rusted
judgment it was a total freak I was
studying music at the Conservatory of
Music in San Francisco I just started
getting interested in cinematography my
roommate as a conservatory
Richard stark are you getting audio yep
sounds good I know Richard started yes
no mr. rich Richard got involved with
Emil and and yourself by the way you
look great you had black her hair the
last time I saw you fifty years ago
anyway he called me and he said you want
to get involved in documentary
and I said sure hell I wanted to shoot
anything I was very green and just
getting started out so we had this
incredible adventure I don't mind saying
it was a little scary we did with the
police to know we were there we knew
that things were not totally truthful
every time a car backfired and daily
Cindy Lee square I don't know about
anybody else I hit the ground I'm sure
there were you know imagine there were
shots being fired and it was a real
eye-opener I I guess sort of myself
pretty left but I really was not I
didn't have any reason to be suspicious
of what you know the government was
saying in those days but after witness
after witness and I heard the questions
being asked them and typically they'd
say where were the shots fired from and
they point like right there Oh to the
Book Depository building and they would
say how do you know that
well the Warren Commission proved it
where do you think the shots were fired
from Oh over there by the grassy knoll
and when you see that over and over
again from all these different points of
view and from ordinary people that you
know you were there when they knocked on
the door there couldn't be any you know
I mean they weren't fake witnesses or
anything they just absolutely convinced
me that we were getting the truth and
that there were a lot of people that
didn't want us to do I do that so it
helped radicalize me I can't say I knew
a lot about it or you know I went into
it for altruistic reasons but I sure but
I sure don't learn I sure learned a lot
that's good to meet you for the first
time there hi it's been a few years mark
yes it has been a few years yes it was
last century literally well I I don't
know about you but I think we like to
watch your movie gentlemen before we get
going are there any
any quick questions that you members of
the audience would like to ask okay well
if you could do it again is there
anything left that of the original you'd
like to put in down did you hear that
question marked those who did - um this
is the audience let me let me take one
second to like to recognize a couple
people in the audience so my claim was
made a very first average average Joe -
really looking to the assassination but
there have been researchers people from
all different walks of life who have
just taken it upon themselves to ask
questions and to do a little digging
themselves and here in the Triangle
we're lucky enough fortunate you have
two individuals who have done some
wonderful country you have one
contributions to revealing this history
and yeah two of them sitting right here
IRA David were the third the famous
actor Latino diversity Scrooge and uh
Christmas Carol here in the Triangle
then this is the man right here and the
founder of the theater in the park as
well as Grover Proctor historian and
mathematician and lifelong academic he I
don't know if anyone saw an article I
wrote last year about why they call but
that appeared to be needy but uh Grover
Proctor
had done the lion's share of research on
that and he's the one who actually
coined the term or ollie off and we can
get into that after the film if you're
interested but mr Wood asked if there
was anything that you would change mark
or anything that you would have added or
would have done differently with the
film is there anything that would work
Dyson can't you find my position you
would have done differently
I'm sorry because he wouldn't I mean I
change about the film fulfillment of all
aspects without that there yet it wasn't
what I said is what the witnesses said
and we asked the witnesses what they saw
with the herd and they presented their
views and I think they did it heroically
SM Holland with railroad supervisor was
up on the overpass and and he told me
him when he was headed down step his
sheriff before them but is up there and
he had been warned not to talk to me I
was coming to town and he was warned not
to talk to me and I said yet who you are
were in your house to be in film
he said well sir when you can see your
president will you support him or not
the election see you present have his
head blown off right in front of your
eyes and you don't have the courage to
tell the American people the truth about
that event then I say let's give this
country back to the Indians if they'll
have it and so that was a really an
encouraging thing to see people been
threatened yet came forward because they
thought this was so important that the
American people learn
one of the witnesses and Julie inspiring
to me so many witnesses so courageous
Bob what was what was the next film you
worked on and have you did you shoot any
other films that were quite as uh as uh
interesting oh wow I don't think I've
got anything is that's a that's had the
continuing interest that rush to
judgment did we did a documentary on a
spiritual healer in Peru
it was pretty revealing and nice but you
know ever it never I don't think it was
as important it's interesting this was
my first time out I wasn't very much of
a cinematographer but the you know my my
my career is more shooting dramatic
films and I try to shoot good quality
stuff of course but no I just
unfortunately was not able to to stay in
this kind of area of documentaries where
you're really going in and and doing
stuff as significant as this so the
answer is kind of know you know well
perhaps you could collaborate on on rush
to judgment - I'm ready I'm ready I'm
ready
terrible all right well gentlemen thank
you very much yes one question if you
look up in the internet movie database
under rush to judgment it not only lists
the 67th in the classic but it lists mr.
Lane as producer of a fella called a
master judgment that is supposedly still
now in post-production does that really
exist
did you hear that so in the Internet
Movie Database
hey I'm sorry what's the question
it was about a rush to judgment
another film is lifted but it's
basically the same thing with some
magicians oh and so that's what you're
doing now yeah that guy ready yes the
question was about your book plausible
denial and if you've ever considered
making that into a film
well I mean you've got a suggestion I'm
welcome to suggestions myself well I
think for him
well I think you have a director of
photography so that you can reach very
far intercom good person gentlemen thank
you very much
and I'll be in touch